David, we completely blew it. We went
into Jamie Dimon's office, had our
little meet and greet. We did not ask
about the dual pistols.
Yeah, from the duel, Alexander Hamilton
and Aaron Burr, which JP Morgan owns and
keeps in their headquarters. And we blew
it. We didn't ask to see them.
We'll just have to come back. When they
finish the new building, I'm sure they
will be in the executive floor. We can
go get a viewing of the you know, piece
of American history.
All right. Speaking of American history,
let's do it. Let's do it.
Welcome to the summer 2025 season of
Acquired, the podcast about great
companies and the stories and playbooks
behind them. I'm Ben Gilbert. I'm David
Rosenthal. And we are your hosts.
Today's episode is the story of a rising
star on Wall Street in the 1980s, who
worked with his mentor to merge and
acquire their way to the top of the
financial world in the 90s. Who then got
fired unexpectedly by that same mentor,
who cast about deciding what to do next.
And then in 2000, accepted a job turning
around a poorly run Midwestern bank.
Then over the next 25 years, he would
orchestrate one of the most remarkable
runs in banking history and really all
of corporate history. This is the story
of Jamie Dimon and how he created the
modern financial behemoth JP Morgan
Chase out of the beleaguered component
parts of Bank One, JP Morgan Chase, Bear
Stearns, Washington Mutual, and First
Republic.
Jamie is now the longest serving CEO of
any major Wall Street bank and is viewed
as kind of the great stabilizer of the
American financial system, especially
during the 2008 financial crisis. He now
sits atop the largest bank in the US
with an over $800 billion market cap,
which is more than twice their nearest
competitor. They are the only bank
within spitting distance of these sort
of big trillion-dollar tech companies
that we've covered here on Acquired. And
to really put a finer point on the
dominance, they are the most valuable
company east of the Mississippi in the
United States and the only company east
of the Mississippi worth more than half
a trillion dollars. Incredible. So, the
question, of course, is how did he do
it? I mean, banks fail. Financial firms
often have spectacular blow-ups and
large organizations, period, financial
or not, can often get so bloated that
they slow down to a crawl. So, what did
Jamie Dimon do differently? Well,
today's episode, we have Jamie with us
himself to tell the story. We recorded
this live in front of 6,000 Acquired
fans at Radio City Music Hall in New
York City. So, you'll notice it's a
different format than our usual episode.
We're always trying to figure out what
version of Acquired works live with an
audience and this is our latest
iteration. The Radio City show also had
a second act, a late-night talk show
where we had conversations with the CEO
of The New York Times, Meredith Kopit
Levien, and the chairman of IAC, Barry
Diller, plus some cameos from around the
Acquired Cinematic Universe. And we
cannot wait to share all of that with
you at a later date.
Well, if you want to know every time an
episode drops, check out our email list,
acquired.fm/email.
Come join the Slack
and talk about this with us afterwards,
acquired.fm/slack.
If you want more Acquired between each
monthly episode, check out ACQ2, our
interview show where we talk with
founders and CEOs building businesses in
areas we've covered on the show. And
before we dive in, we want to briefly
thank our presenting partner, JP Morgan.
Yes, the same JP Morgan, which is funny
because when we started planning this
show together, gosh, almost a year ago,
it was immediately clear to Ben and me
that the very best person who Acquired
could interview in New York
also happened to be their CEO. And as
you all know from the episodes over the
last couple years, JP Morgan has been a
fantastic partner of ours and their
payments team demoed all kinds of cool
technology at the event. Our huge thanks
to the JP Morgan team for putting on the
show with us. And if you ever want to
learn more, just click the link in the
show notes and tell them that Ben and
David sent you.
So, with that, this show is not
investment advice. David and I may have
investments in the companies we discuss
and this show is for informational and
entertainment purposes only. On to our
conversation with Jamie Dimon.
Well, this feels appropriate.
You guys dressed up for me.
You dressed up for us, too. Thank you.
Last year, we had you on the video board
at at Chase and you were looking very
summery there.
You look great tonight. Thank you.
>> Yes. Well, we know you're a big history
buff and we consider ourselves
historians above all else. So,
what we'd like to do here tonight is
walk through the 20-year story with you
of sort of how you turned JP Morgan
Chase from a bank among many a bank
among many to the most systemically
important financial institution in the
world. Are you game?
Sound good? Sounds great. Thank you.
Uh we want to start in 1998.
You and your mentor, Sandy Weill, have
just spent the past 13 years building
the modern financial institution
conglomerate. Really the the the the
blueprint for what JP Morgan Chase is
today.
Except it's not JP Morgan, it's
Citigroup. And everybody on Wall Street
in the entire world expects that you are
going to be named CEO of Citigroup in
short order. This is 1998.
>> 1998. This is not what happens. Instead,
you get fired.
And you have to restart your whole
career, everything, your whole life from
scratch.
Sorry to start here, by the way.
But but but before we get into what you
do next,
what was the model that you and Sandy
built at Citigroup? Okay. First of all,
I am thrilled to be here. I want to
congratulate these guys for building the
Acquired.
It's a it's a great intelligent addition
to what we need to learn in society. And
so, I would say it wasn't quite the
model because if you look at what we did
at Commercial Credit, Primerica was then
Travelers and merged. We were a
financial conglomerate. We bought lots
of companies and lots of different
businesses. We fixed them up, we turned
around, we made money.
And then we merged it with Citibank,
which obviously was a huge bank. And you
know, my view is I was going to we
should skinny it down and kind of shed
the parts that aren't that important to
the rest of the company and keep the
things that strategically belong
together together. It was one of my
small disagreements with Sandy about the
future of the company. And so,
but it was big, it was making a lot of
money, it was quite successful at the
time.
Uh and then I got fired.
So, so how are you feeling in that
moment?
When I got fired?
>> Yeah, that moment. Well, you know, my
wife is here and I was hosting 100
people uh
recruiter recruiting kids in my
apartment in New York City, same
apartment I have now.
And they called me We had a management
Sunday at 4:00 p.m. that night. And
Sandy and John Reed called me and said,
"Can you come a little early? We got a
bunch of stuff to talk about." I was the
president chief operating officer. I
drove up I said, "I can't." They said,
"What's really important." So, I drove
up there. Uh and I sat down in the room
with Sandy and John and they said they
want to make a few changes.
And there are three of them and they
said we one one we want to make this
person in charge of that. I said,
"Okay." Well, that didn't make sense to
me. The second one they wanted to make
someone in charge of the global
investment bank, which I was running. I
thought it was another stupid decision.
And the third is they said they want you
to resign.
And I said, "Okay."
Cuz you know, at that moment, I knew it
was all arranged. The board had voted,
the press release was written, the
management team was coming up. So, I
waited uh
you know, for the management team to
come up. I wished them the best. I said,
"You guys have a chance to build
one of the great companies." Uh they all
thanked me. Uh they Sandy said, "You
want to do the Uh so, I went home,
went to see my kids. They were like One
of my daughters is here, too. They were
like 12, 14, 12, and 10. And I walk in
the front door and uh I tell them, you
know, I I was fired. And the youngest
one says, "Daddy,
uh
do we have to sleep on the streets?" I
said, "No, no, we're we're okay." And
the middle one, who was always obsessed
with college for some reason, "Can I
still go to college?" I said, "Yeah."
And the one who was here, who was the
oldest one, said, "Great. Since you
don't need a have your cell phone,
And then that night, about 50 people
came over. All the same people I just
met, all the management team, bringing
whiskey. It was like having your own
wake. And there's one really tall guy
who came in, very good friend of mine,
and he looks and my daughter looks up at
him and says, "Who are you?" He says, "I
used I work for your daddy." And she
says, "Not anymore, you don't."
And uh
that was it. I was okay. You know, I was
like I tell people it's your my net
worth, not my self worth that was
involved.
And for anyone who doesn't sort of
already know Jamie's story, you were the
rising star. I mean, you were
City was the biggest bank.
You were the heir apparent. I mean, this
is this was like unfathomable and for
you to take it this gracefully,
uh
you know, it says a lot.
So,
you're sort of wandering in the woods as
I best I can kind of reconstruct it for
about 18 months. Is that right? Figuring
out what's next? Yeah. I you know, it
took me a while to ex- exit and sign
agreements and get out. They were kind
of mean.
Uh but and then I stepped into office
and it was late. I took We went for a
nice long vacation and stuff like that.
Uh when I got back in September, so that
was six months later, I went to my I
started going to work. out. nothing to
do, but I went from you know, 2:00 to
9:00 to 5:00 and started calling people
and thinking about what I'm going to do.
It was in the Seagram's building, so I
could go for lunch uh downstairs every
day. And I and I
>> Four Seasons? At the Four Seasons. And I
explored everything. I started my own
merchant bank. I could have retired just
teaching, uh just investing, but I was
42.
>> And you you took a call about running
Amazon, right?
>> again? You took a call about running
Amazon, didn't you? I went to I loved I
went to visit Jeff Bezos, who was
looking for a president at the time. He
and I hit it off. We've been friends
ever since. He's an exceptional human
being. Uh but it was like a bridge too
far, even though that movie just come
out, When Harry Met Sally. I was
thinking, my god, I'll never wear a suit
again. I'm going to live in a houseboat.
Yeah, yeah. This would be really great.
Uh What a what an alternate universe
we'd be living in.
>> It would have been an alternate
universe, but I'm still good friends
with Jeff, so I got at least one good
thing out of it. Uh and then I would
then I got serious, you know, and I was
I was offered jobs to run, you know, big
other big global investment banks.
Uh
Hank Greenberg, who ran AIG, called me
up and said, "You should come join us."
I was thinking, "I'm going to go from
Sandy Weill to you? I mean, I'd have my
head examined to do something like
that."
Uh
I didn't know the AIG story.
>> Then Yeah, well, that that happened
years later, too. And then uh and I got
a phone call from a headhunter about
Bank One. And I was also you guys A lot
of you probably know Ken Langone and
Bernie Marcus and Arthur Blank, who ran
Home Depot. My wife I loved them.
But at my first dinner with them, I went
to see them in Atlanta. I said, "I have
to make a confession. Until you guys
called, I'd never been in a Home Depot."
And
We were actually wondering. David and I
were debating.
>> my friend my friend made me go up My
friend made me go up there and get some
equipment and plants and stuff like
that.
So, but I loved their culture, their
attitude. They wanted me to do it. Ken
Langone says, "You still should I still
should have gotten you. I wasn't going
to pay you enough." Of course, it had
nothing to do with anything like that.
Uh and I had Bank One, but Bank One
was my habitat. I was used to financial
companies, you know, services, banking.
It wasn't quite global. It was a little
global at the time. Uh and you know, it
was a troubled bank. And you know, I
decided that you know, life is what you
make it. It was hard on my family. I had
a we had to move, I think, for
anyone who's going to move kids that,
you know, that I think they were 14, 12,
and 10 or something like that. It's
hard.
>> context on Bank One for for folks who
are not familiar.
It's not in New York.
It's a large bank, but it's a troubled
bank.
>> Yeah.
It's based in Chicago.
>> David, it's a it's a $30 market cap
bank. Citigroup, where you just had been
before, was a $200 Yeah. billion-dollar
bank.
>> 21 billion at the time, cuz it had You
you have the right numbers, but it did a
split, and so if you look back, it was
more like 20 20 billion or something
like that. Yeah.
And City was 200, but you know, I I
didn't worry about that. I was like, you
know, in life, you make things what they
are. I don't like complaining about
overspilled milk, you know, you just put
on your pants, you get going, you see
what you can make out of it, and uh But
you It sounds like you had opportunities
to stay in New York to run bigger, more
glamorous things.
>> one I was going to run the company. The
other ones would have been some
investment banks. I didn't really trust
some of the people who were talking me
about that. And there's a whole bunch of
other stuff that I explored. I took
phone calls, some small companies, some
big companies. There were a couple of
subprime mortgage companies who called
me, and I was like, "Absolutely not."
We'll get to that. We'll get to that.
>> We'll get to that. And uh so, I just
thought this was a chance, you know, and
uh you know, if the family's willing to
move, uh we got a nice took us a while.
We had to live in a rental for a while,
but we got a nice brownstone, and you
know, we love ended up loving Chicago.
Chicago's a wonderful city in a lot of
different ways, and and you know, I
guess it is what you make it. You know,
and I I put half my money in the stock
at the time. Yeah, you
>> my I was going to be the captain of the
ship. I was going to go down with the
ship. You know, I made it clear to
everyone I was here permanently, and
it'll be what it is, and so I got to
work, like literally the next day. Did
we do the math right that right before
you joined Bank One, you bought $60 of
stock? I did.
I mean, I that's I've never heard of
someone taking a CEO job and saying,
"I'm going to invest half my net worth
in this company now." Yeah.
And I I thought it was I thought it
might be overvalued a little bit,
because there was people thought it
might be sold or something like that,
but I didn't care about that. You know,
if you work at a company and the new CEO
comes in, he's from out of town,
uh and you're going to have a lot of
shareholders, and you know, I knew I
knew a lot of the shareholders. I was
going to know a lot of the shareholders.
I wanted to know I was in 100%.
Lock, stock, and barrel. There was no
question I would never sell that stock,
and I'm going to go down with the ship
or go up with the ship. And they also
you as making decisions that I thought
were right for long-term health of the
company, and I'm not for a short-term
type of thing. So So, what did you find
when you got there? Day one on the job,
you start investigating. Is it better or
worse the same than you thought? You
know, there there had been an analyst
called Mike Mayo done a report. I
remember one of the great lines in the
report, "Even Hercules couldn't fix it."
It had been an amalgamation of Bank One,
First Chicago, National Bank of Detroit.
They'd never put the companies together,
so they had multiple statement systems,
processing systems, payment systems,
you know, SAP systems.
Uh they had different brands, you know,
services coming down. We were losing
accounts. They were closing branches. It
was a mess. But you know, it was all of
it, systems, people, ops. But again, I
just you know, I just I met the
management team. I It's hard. You know,
I walked in. I met six of the directors.
I
There were 21 directors. 11 hated the
other 10.
Yeah, wait Wait wait wait wait. There
were 21
board members. 21 board members from the
merged multiple acquisitions. They they
were tribal. They ended up hating each
other. I knew that when I went in, cuz I
knew one people, and you know, I spoke
to a lot of people, did research in the
bank. But again, in life, you get handed
these things. It's not perfect. You
know, even today, people want to be
handed something perfect. It's not
perfect. And I was So, I met six of the
directors. I walked in. When I got
offered the job, I shook all their
hands. I told them I would do the best I
do. I'm going to tell the truth, the
whole truth, nothing but the truth, the
good, the bad, the ugly. We're not going
to We're going to try to build
a great company. I'm going to need your
help.
And uh
And then they they said
they left.
So, now I'm on the executive floor. I
don't even know where to go.
You know, and so I kind of knocked on
someone's door, the head of HR. I said,
"I do need an office, and I really need
an assistant."
And they were going to give me the
chairman's office in the corner. I said,
"No, no. I want to be like right in the
middle, so I can see people when I stick
my head out." Uh and then I
went to meet the management team. I went
to this They put them all in this
conference room, with nice white plush
carpets.
I walked in with a cup of coffee, and
they said, "Uh Jamie, we don't drink
coffee here obvious reasons."
So, I looked at them. I had the coffee.
I looked at them. I said, "You do now."
And then I then I just started meeting
with them all, and the systems were
terrible. The company was losing money.
I didn't know all the businesses really
well. So, the credit card company had
collapsed. That's probably the business
I knew the least.
Uh but again, it didn't that didn't
matter to me. I was going to try to fix
it. It had some good assets and things
like that. So, I rolled up my sleeves
and went to work, and
One of um
as as when we were chatting a couple
weeks ago in preparing for this, um
we asked you in the context of JP
Morgan, like what what are the critical
things in your mind that has made JP
Morgan what it is. Saying the first
thing you said was risk. And was risk
and the culture around risk and the way
you treat risk.
>> by management of risk. Yeah. When you
got to Bank One,
I think this is where you first started
putting into practice the culture around
risk. What was the risk culture at Bank
One, and how did you change it? Yeah, I
you know, I've always been very
risk-conscious. And risk-conscious does
not mean getting rid of risk. It means
properly pricing it and understanding
the potential outcomes. Uh
uh and so, when I got there, you know, I
just started meeting people and going
through. I quickly realized that Bank
One had more US corporate credit risk
than Citibank did.
And they the way they accounted for it
was unbelievably aggressive. And you
know, so they had less capital, less
reserves, less this. They They were
calling these things profitable. They
were basically losing money. Uh and you
know, loans in real a lot of business.
You have to be very careful about the
credit business. And once I found out
that, I kind of panicked a little bit.
And I went through every single loan in
the books. I marked them all down, put
up more reserves, told the board uh
about it, and then wanted to earn more
revenues per dollar of risk. So, for
example, in the middle market business,
we had for every loan NII, we had like
80 cents and 20 cents
>> income for the non-banking
>> income from the loan, and 20 cents of
other revenue, like payments.
By the time we merged with JP Morgan, we
had 40% NII from the loan and 60% NII
NIR from other type of things, like
payments. And one, you're being paid for
the risk, and one, you're being paid
little for the risk. And I always stress
tested, and I showed the board that if
we ever recession, and we're about to
have one,
uh how much money we'd lose in credit.
So, I hired a woman called Linda
Bammann, who said, "Okay, if you're
going to if you're going to let me do
credit, you're going to let me sell
loans." I said, "Yes." "Are you going to
let me hedge loans?" "Yes." "Can I do 10
billion?" I said, "Yes."
She said, "Okay, I'll join." We probably
reduced the balance sheet by 50 billion,
because and then we did have a
recession, but we were kind of okay by
then. With one big bad one, which is
United, which went bankrupt, and we
basically owned it for a small period of
time. There seems to be kind of a
fundamental Jamie Dimon Jamie Dimonism,
which is don't blow up.
I mean, a lot of other people I've
gotten decent at pricing risk, but
everyone else seems to be willing to get
closer to the line than you.
Where did you sort of develop this don't
blow up at all costs Yeah, so there's
you know, around risk, there's always
this ecosystem. You always heard it.
Everyone's doing it. Everyone's okay.
This is going to work. This time is
different. And you know, history tells
you learn teaches you a lot. And I
always say, if you read it, and my dad
was a stockbroker.
And so, I bought my first stock when I
was 14. In 1972,
the stock market hit a thousand. It hit
a thousand in 1968. I was already
helping a little bit with stuff.
By 1974, it was down 45%.
All the limousines in Wall Street were
gone. Restaurants were being closed. You
know, markets move violently. And then,
you know, we had kind of a recovery in
1980, had a recession. 82, you had a
recession. In 82, it was lower than it
had been in 1968. And it it hit 800. And
then, in 87, the market was down 25% in
one day. In 1990, all these banks, JP
Morgan, Citi, Chase, Chemical, were all
taken to their knees by real estate
losses. And they're all worth about a
billion dollars. I mean, I think Citi
was 3 billion at the time, and the other
ones were about a billion dollars. And
then, you had the 90 7,
also real estate related thing. You had
the 2000 internet bubble. You know, and
then, you had the great financial
crisis. And I could If you go through
history, there's tons of these things.
Andrew Ross Sorkin is in here, and I
just read his book. He was nice enough
to send it to me. 1929, and man, history
does rhyme.
Too much leverage, too much risk.
Everyone thinks it's going to be great.
No one thinks it's going to go down a
lot. You know, that stock market went
down 20% one year, 30% next year, 20%
next year. At one point, it was down
90%.
You know, happens.
>> It seems like your philosophy is
that the most the worst thing will
happen. So, just plan for it. Don't
don't say, "Oh, we're good as long as
this crazy insane, you know, four sigma
event doesn't happen." You're like, "No,
that will happen, and it happens often."
Yeah, so when I got when I look at it, I
always ask like when I do stress testing
or risk for high yield, the worst I
remember getting to JP Morgan and going
through the risk books, and their their
stress test was that high yield would
move 40% the credit spread. That's good
and at the time it was at 400 or
whatever it was. That means five 560.
Okay? And I said, "No, our stress test
is going to be worst ever." Worst ever
was 17%.
And they said, "That'll never happen
again. The market's more sophisticated."
Well, in '08, it hit 20%, and you
couldn't have sold a bond. There was no
market. So, you know, those things do
happen. And the point isn't that you're
trying to guess The point is you
you can handle them, so you continue
build your business. And so, I always
look what I call the fat tails and
manage that we can handle all the all
the fat tails. And not the stress test
the Fed gives us, but all the fat tails.
Markets down 50%, interest rates up to
8%, credit spreads back to worst ever.
Of course, your results will be worse,
but you're there. And and the thing
about financial services, leverage
kills you. Aggressive accounting can
kill you, which a lot of companies do
do. Um
And you know, the goal should be And
also, confidence. If you lose money as a
financial company, I always knew this,
too. People The headlines are, you know,
people read that. And if they're relying
on putting their money with you, they
look at that different. So, I They lose
trust. They lose trust. And that's what
caused you seeing runs on banks, and you
saw some recently.
Uh because people run take their money
out. So, the one There's a thing that
you just said, which is
that you might do worse, but you're
there. There There's sort of this
trade-off that you make where you're
less profitable in the short term, but
at least you stick around. If you look
back at the companies that you've run,
big one, JP Morgan Chase, is that true
in the good years that you've actually
been less profitable than those who are
kind of risk on?
>> Yeah, a little bit. He's saying that,
you know, if you look at the history of
banks from up until 2007, a lot of banks
were earning 30% equity.
Most of them went bankrupt. We never did
that much. Okay, but in '08 and '09, we
were fine, and they weren't. And so, but
you want to build a real strong company
with real margins, real clients,
conservative accounting, where you're
not relying on leverage. And it's very
easy to use leverage to, you know, to
jack up returns in any business, you
know, and but in in banking, it could be
particularly dangerous. So, it seems
like a core
part, if not the entirety of this
distilled into your operating strategy
is the fortress balance sheet.
>> Yeah.
When did you first hear about the
fortress balance sheet?
>> I've been talking about I go way back to
Primerica. I used to talk about that.
You're going to be able to survive the
tough times.
It probably the 1990s, and like I said,
I grew up with my father, and I went
through those market things. I remember
how hard it was on people in Wall
Street. Uh but but the fortress balance
sheet is that you run a company serving
clients well, you have good margins,
good liquidity, good capital. I'm as
conservative in accounting as you can
find. I don't up-front profits when I
can spread them over time. And
accounting, you of course accountants
hate it when I say this, you can drive a
truck through accounting rules. And
accounting itself, you know, that
certain things are considered expenses,
but they're good. They're an investment
for the future, but they're called an
expense. And then, revenues, you know,
if I make bad loans, they are bad
revenues. They will kill you, but for a
while, they look pretty good. So, I It's
all those things, margins, clients. You
know, in the banking business, the
character the clients you have will
reflect in your bank. So, the first
thing is who you're doing business with,
how you're doing business, and
you know, and also making sure your
compensation plans aren't paying people
for stuff which is stupid or unethical.
And you know,
and you always have to review these
things to make sure you have them right,
cuz they they change all the time.
All right, listeners. Now is a great
time to thank one of our favorite
companies, Vercel. Yes, Vercel is an
awesome company. Over the past few
years, they've become the infrastructure
backbone that powers modern web
development and now the AI wave. If you
visited a fast, responsive, modern
website lately, or used a slick AI
native app with agents and
hyper-personalized interfaces, there's a
good chance it was built and deployed on
Vercel. So, for the past decade, they've
been on a mission to democratize the
lessons of the giants, companies like
Google and Amazon and Meta. And the idea
is developers shouldn't have to spend
weeks and engineering resources to
stitch together dozens of services just
to launch a web app. Vercel made it
simple. You write code, you ship it.
Fast, globally distributed, and without
developing a second skill set in the
nuances of deployment. That's the magic
of their framework-defined
infrastructure, which basically lets
developers and large teams go from idea
to production without any friction. So,
as you may know, Vercel has been
synonymous with front-end development,
but now they do back-end and agentic
workloads as well. Vercel calls this the
AI cloud, purpose-built for the next era
of apps, and already in production
across companies like Under Armour,
PayPal, Notion, and AI startups like
Runway, Decagon, and Browserbase. Yep,
the AI cloud takes removing deployment
friction even one more step. In some
cases, developers don't even need to
push code anymore. Agents can release
features continuously, infrastructure
configures itself, and interfaces adapt
to how you work. If you want to build
the future of software, head to
vercel.com/acquired.
That's v e r c e l.com/acquired.
And just tell them that Ben and David
sent you. Now is also a great time to
thank another of our favorite companies,
Anthropic, and their AI assistant,
Claude. Claude has really transformed
our workflow here at Acquired. Preparing
to interview Jamie Dimon requires
serious research. Obviously, decades of
banking history, regulatory changes,
three financial crises, building the
fortress balance sheet. This is exactly
the kind of complex analysis that Claude
is excellent at. Ben and I have never
had assistants here because we think
it's important for us to do the research
ourselves, but Claude now gives us the
best of both worlds. It's an extra set
of hands that we have full control and
visibility into what it's doing and how.
So, where Claude is especially great for
me is extended thinking mode. When I
asked it to analyze JP Morgan's strategy
through multiple financial crises, I
could watch Claude's reasoning through
each decision point step by step. And it
has full context by connecting to our
entire 10-year base of knowledge here at
Acquired through something called MCP,
which you might have heard about, the
model context protocol. They have
pre-built integrations with Gmail and
Google Docs, and also services like
Jira, Asana, Linear, Square, PayPal, as
well as custom integrations for any
internal tooling that you have. And
Claude is built by Anthropic with a
laser focus on accuracy and
trustworthiness, which is exactly what
we need. Yep, if you want to start using
Claude yourself or for your
organization, go to claude.ai/acquired,
and they've got a special offer for
Acquired listeners, half-price Claude
Pro for 3 months, which gets you access
to all the features mentioned above. So,
whether you're preparing for your own
high-stakes meetings, interviews, or
conversations, or you just need an AI
you can trust with serious work, Claude
thinks with you, not for you. That's
claude.ai/acquired.
All right, David, catch catch us up to
the merger. So, you run Bank One for 4
years from Chicago. And then, in 2004,
you merge with JP Morgan Chase in what
is termed at the time a merger of
equals. I think JP Morgan Chase referred
to it as that. Bank One shareholders get
42%
of the combined company. I mean, I think
people don't realize how much of JP
Morgan Chase is Bank One today.
>> That's what I said, a little irritating
when they say, "You've been running it
since '07." I was running JP Morgan I
was running 40% of the company for the
whole time.
And uh
When I got to Bank One, and I'm not
working around the clock, I I already
knew that a logical strategic merger
might be JP Morgan. Okay, I know all
these companies, and that's the other
thing about fortress balance sheet, is
you also have real strategies that
survive the test of time. And you know,
you're not flipping and flopping. Um And
then, I'm sitting there, and then of
course, the tape comes, JP Morgan Chase
to merge. So, we're worth like 25
billion, they're now worth like 80
billion or 90 or whatever the number
was. I'm like, "Well, there goes that
dream." But 4 years later, our stock was
up to you know, doubled or something
like that. There's actually come in, and
it was in the target range and I'd been
meeting with Bill Harrison the current
chairman of of JP Morgan at the time. We
were talking about it. We both knew it
made business sense. They were kind of
looking for a CEO.
So we were we had been talking probably
for a year and a half before that. That
they're looking for a CEO.
Did
Did they give Bank One shareholders 42%
cuz they were looking for a CEO? There
were two lawsuits. Okay, so we got the
premium.
They got the name and the location and I
I effectively had kind of control from
day one because inside the merger
agreement and this is almost unheard of
when we get the premium is that to not
have me become CEO 18 months later 75%
of the board would have to vote me out.
And the board The default was you were
going to become CEO. And the board was
eight Bank One people and eight JP
Morgan people.
I knew a lot of the JP Morgan board
members too who who respected me and
Bill Harrison I were very close. But
that was the agreement. They got sued
for paying too much to buy me. I got
sued for not taking enough.
You know you get sued
you can't win at these things. I I think
every shareholder is probably But it
worked it worked out. Yeah. All right.
2006?
Before we get to 2006
When you're going through that process
and even maybe the couple years before
you and Bill were talking you're
starting to think about JP Morgan as a
partner.
I'm curious did the brand did the name
JP Morgan factor into your thinking at
all? Did you view that as an asset? I
mean JP Morgan brand is a Tiffany name.
I didn't value it in the deal and what
we what I looked at I had given my board
I think it's I think the first thing is
run your company well and people thought
I was going to start doing deals
immediately. I was like no we suck. We
don't we haven't earned the right to run
someone else's company yet. When we're
running a good company we can merge with
somebody and but I but the first thing I
looked at was business logic. And that
every business we had a consumer
business they had a consumer business we
had a credit card business they were
both terrible. They had a credit card
business. They had a big investment bank
we had a big US corporate bank that
needed some of those investment banking
services. We both had a wealth
management business. I was I knew we
could save a lot of cost saves. So the
business logic was pretty impeccable.
Then there's the ability to execute.
Like can you actually get it done
because you've all seen a lot of deals
where they fall apart. They don't have
management they don't consolidate the
systems or they have in-fighting as that
kind of happened at City.
And so you don't effectuate and then
there's the price. So I knew we had a
Tiffany brand. But it didn't value cuz
if everything else didn't work out I
don't think it would have mattered that
much. Interesting. All right. So
I'm going to fast forward a couple
years. It's 2006. You're officially
chairman and CEO of the combined JP
Morgan Chase. And and 2006 on Wall
Street is like go go go baby. It's like
you know 1980s all over again.
I think you had the same incentives as
everybody else but you behaved very
differently. Am I missing something? Did
you have the same incentives or You
pulled JP Morgan back hard on the risk
side in 2006.
So there there were cracks out there in
2006. May remember the quants there
started to be a quant problem in late
2006. We definitely saw a subprime
getting bad. And that's I pulled back on
subprime. I wish I'd done more cuz if
you look what I did you say okay well
you had saved half the money but you
would have saved more. You still lost
some losses. But but but we also had
I'm going to say less
maybe a third of the leverage of the big
investment banks.
And a lot more liquidity. So in 2006 I
started to stockpile liquidity and you
know looking at the situation I was
quite worried. The leverage if you you
may not remember this but the leverage
because of accounting rules and Basel
III Basel I investment banks
particularly the banks the big
investment banks went from 12 times
leverage to 35 times leverage.
And and it was go go. So for every one
dollar you were putting in you had
bridge loans the whole thing like in '07
the bridge book of Wall Street was $450
billion.
Today it's 40 billion. JP Morgan can
take on the whole 40 billion today
though we're not the 40 billion today.
And they were much more leveraged deals
and a lot of them fell apart collapsed
and
and then of course and that was before
you had the collapse in the mortgage
markets which really took down a lot of
these banks. But but you did have the
same incentives
and you had the same
access to information that a lot of
these other folks did but you didn't
blow up.
What explains this cuz usually behavior
follows incentives.
Yeah well first of all if you work for
me I would tell you
I don't care what the incentive is don't
do the wrong thing.
And and don't do the wrong thing to a
client. And treat yourself if you're the
client how would you want to be treated?
And I I'd gotten rid of I mentioned that
one risk thing there were multiple risk
things like that they were being paid to
take the risk. You were you were telling
us about the the auto loan business.
Yeah but they were being paid but the
second I put in all these new risk
controls all of a sudden you weren't
making money by taking that leverage
because I was looking at how much
capital could actually be deployed if
things get bad and so I was looking at
earnings through the cycle
and then but very importantly all of
these investment banks were doing side
deals private deals three year deals
five year deals. I got rid of almost all
of them. This is for comp
for senior bankers. So today at JP
Morgan Chase there are no
you know we do do things but and I know
some of my partners in the room here but
we all know about it. There are no winks
there are no nods there are no side
deals there's almost no one paid on a
particular thing because if you're paid
on a particular thing you can do the
wrong thing and meanwhile not helping
the company you know manage its risk or
something like that. So we changed the
incentive programs. And I'm quite
conscious about incentive programs that
they don't create mis you know
misbehavior but it's also very important
if you're in a company and you say the
incentive program is doing that you
should tell the company this incentive
plan is not incentivizing the right
behavior versus the the customer. And a
lot of it was leverage. So you if you
look at the leverage in some of these
securitization books and mortgage books
if you have 30 times leverage and you're
getting 20% of the profits you'll go to
40 times leverage. It's just going to
it's literally will add you know 25% to
your bonus. And so I got rid of the
profit pool 20% and the leverage. And I
lost some people too in the meantime.
JP Morgan is part of the system had the
same incentives but you changed the
incentives for
team within the company. Okay.
All right. We got to go to 2008.
March
13th
Thursday 2008.
Thursday night you get a call from Bear
Stearns CEO. The stock closed that day
at $57 a share. It's like 150 a couple
months before.
Three days later
got to remember it like yesterday. I was
working on Park Avenue on Wall Street. I
remember that night
$2 a share you're buying Bear Stearns.
Tell us the story. I was at Avra on 47th
Street with my parents in my parents'
favorite restaurant. My whole family was
there. It happened to be my birthday. I
I I don't normally get emergency calls.
And Alan Schwartz who was the current
CEO we'd seen their stock go down. I
knew they had some real problems cuz we
saw their hedge funds and some of the
things that were taking place there and
he said Jamie I need $30 tonight before
Asia opens. To which I said I don't know
how to get $30 for you.
And have you called Paulson or you
called Tim Geithner? So we all called. I
called up the management team. I went
back in. I probably had a bite and said
goodbye. Went back to the office.
Probably had 100 people come in that day
that night. They all got dressed they
went back to work cuz it's an emergency.
We now rang all
bells for emergency. Bear Stearns went
bankrupt. Spoke to the Fed about let's
just get them to the weekend. We had one
day and we needed a Saturday and Sunday
and we concocted this loan. So we
couldn't lend the 30 billion. And the
Fed technically couldn't lend the 30
billion but the Fed could lend to us
technically and I could technically use
the collateral of Bear Stearns so that
so we got the literally one day loan
and then the next day I had we had
thousands of people come and do due
diligence and we went through every loan
every asset every balance sheet all the
derivatives all the lawsuits all the HR
policies. Like real due diligence in a
two or three day period and bought the
company at that night $2 a share. Hank
Paulson was saying why are you paying
anything for it? I said well I do have
to get shareholder votes.
And which became
shareholder
it was a public deal and the worst part
of it is I was going to get the lawsuits
from the Bear holders. And I knew that.
But but we couldn't let it go bankrupt.
It wasn't like an industrial company you
can buy and bankruptcy it would be gone.
And the crisis would have just unfolded
so Okay.
Two questions.
One
what would have happened if
if if it if it went down?
Two afterwards did you think it was
over?
No. So we already had so that was March.
You know what happened with Lehman it
was an uncontrolled failure. There was
money locked up everywhere. People
panicked they started pulling money out
of everything. That would have happened
with Bear. So it did stop that and I
would have thought that it gave other
people other time to clean up their act.
So literally six months later I would
have thought some of these other firms
were much had more liquidity and more
capital and a little bit more prepared
for what might be happening. We already
had the stress in the system which you
saw it already. It was going to mount it
wasn't going to go away. There were
tremendous losses coming. So
we bought it and you know probably did
help but in hindsight it didn't stop you
know it didn't stop the crisis from
unfolding.
We bought it
and then like a couple like a week later
we changed to $10 a share. It had been
at 120. And the way to think of it is it
was 300 billion of assets
and a $12 billion book tangible book
value. We wrote off the whole tangible
book value in the
when we bought the company to pay we had
to liquidate the loans, we had to hedge
stuff, we had severance costs, lawsuit
costs, and we basically used all that.
So, we paid we paid a billion dollars
for a company that had been worth uh
20 billion dollars recently. The
building we're in now was worth a
billion dollars on the balance sheet for
zero. And we got the fact we got some
very good people and we got some good
businesses, but it was a extremely
painful process. I I've seen estimates
that in the fullness of time after
really dealing with unwinding all the
stuff there, it cost you 15 to 20
billion dollars. So, it cost you 20
anyway. It was the it was the 12 billion
we wrote off. That didn't cost us. We
didn't really pay for it. And then the
government sued us on the mortgages,
which I was quite offended by.
And I really was. I thought it was a I
thought it was But this is this is the
government. When you
you know,
whatever government you you did a deal
with, that's not the government down the
road who decides, I don't care. We're
going to come after you anyway. So, you
while we kind of saved the system a lot,
we bailed a lot of people out, they made
us pay 5 billion dollars on the more the
bad mortgages that Bear Stearns had
done. And that's what made me make the
statement I wouldn't do it again. I
wouldn't Put it this way. I don't know
how to say this. I wouldn't really trust
the government again.
Would
um it I got to I got to ask a follow-up
question to that.
Um
It Is that a
structural thing? Just the way that
we're set up with a new administration
every 4 years?
Yeah, they they don't feel obligated to
what the prior administration did.
And you know, contract even some
contracts were violated in this thing,
which I won't go through.
Uh literally contract. I mean, it would
have been tortious interference had it
been company to company. But they
basically, you know, since you
operate under their laws, you know, they
can basically take you down. So, you you
know, I I went to see Eric Holder trying
to settle all this mortgage stuff, which
we settled. I put my lead director. He
expected me to come and be pounding my
chest and
uh and I went in and said, "Eric,
I am here to surrender.
I cannot fight and I cannot win against
the federal government. You know that a
criminal indictment can sink my company.
I will not do that to my company or my
country.
I'm here to surrender. Before I
surrender, I want you to know the
circumstances by which we bought WaMu
and Bear Stearns cuz 80% of what they
were asking for related to Bear Stearns
and WaMu, not J.P. Morgan Chase.
And I went through the whole thing. You
know, he said, "Thank you.
I'll take into consideration." But they
never gave me the accounting, so I don't
know what they did. Uh and so, it is
what it is. It was quite painful. Uh
but got to move on. We'll we'll move on
from this.
We'll move on from the specifics.
I do I do have one more thing. Uh um
Whether you would have done it again
wouldn't have, you know,
very clear. It was not a great deal on
paper for J.P. Morgan.
But as we look at it now,
the reputational value that J.P. the
reputation of J.P. Morgan now
is unlike any other in the industry.
Part of why you're worth 800 billion
dollars is that reputation. A lot of
what created that reputation was was
that weekend. Yeah, I I know if if you
Yes, I know I said I wouldn't trust the
government again. If the government
called me up they did they did it again.
If they called me again and said, "We
need your help to save our country."
Well, of course I'm going to I'm a
patriot that way. I just I would just
try to come up with some ways to avoid
the punishment by the next president.
I would come up with something. You need
You know what? You need like the version
of the merger agreement with J.P. Morgan
Chase where it's like a 75% of Congress
needs to vote not to sue you.
And the default is you're not going to
get sued. All right. All right. So,
Bear Stearns happens. Six months later
you get another phone call. WaMu is
going under. You do buy WaMu.
Contrary to everything we're talking
about with Bear, WaMu was actually a
great acquisition, right?
Yeah. So, this is a a legitimate
acquisition.
It's very hard that Remember, we bought
WaMu a week after Lehman went bankrupt.
And and most boards wouldn't have
touched that at all. Cuz the whole
system feels But the whole system was in
trouble, but WaMu put us in California,
uh parts of Nevada, Arizona, not
Arizona, Georgia, Florida, which we
weren't in. So, think of these really
healthy states.
And they had, you know, 2,300 branches.
They were And they had they had huge
mortgage problems. But we had looked at
it over and over and over.
So, we knew their mortgage books called
and we wrote it off we bought it for
we bought it for 30 billion dollars
discounted tangible book value
because they had debt. And we left the
debt behind. And so, and that 30 billion
was approximately what the mortgage loss
was going to be. So, we bought the
company Think of it we bought a company
clean. We wrote off all that stuff. The
books were clean. And then we did
something unheard of, too. The next day
or 2 days later I went in the market
raised another 11 billion dollars of
equity, which I didn't really need, but
again, this my conservatism,
I was like, "You know what? This could
get even worse and and I don't want to
be short capital liquidity." So, we you
know, we raised that to make sure our
balance sheet was just as strong as it
was after WaMu than it was before WaMu.
And you already had the reputation to
pull this off, right? I'm imagining
in the worst month of the financial
crisis, who can go out and raise 11
billion dollars of equity? Yeah.
It was Yeah. People people trust you.
Well, yeah, we knew a lot of the
shareholders and you you earn your trust
over time with shareholders and you
know, we explained we we gave them a a
quick little presentation over the you
know, what
Uh uh yeah, and a lot of them stepped up
and said, "This is great." Um
And they also know we could execute it
cuz with behind the Bear Stearns, people
forget the work is the next day you got
50,000 people consolidating, you know,
5,000 applications, branches,
compensation programs, uh
you know, settlement programs, you know,
payment systems. It's a lot of work. But
we obviously have the capability to do
that and we had the capability to do
WaMu. I think we finished the WaMu
consolidations in 9 months, all of them.
So, that within 9 months they were all
on the same systems, which allows you to
start doing a better job on customer
service uh and things like that. So,
this fortress balance sheet strategy and
raising this equity capital and, you
know, having additional margin of safety
and conservative accounting, in
retrospect, it seems like the obvious
right strategy for running a large
financial institution. Why wasn't
everyone else copying it? Have people
changed and does everyone else run their
banks like this now? I think people
the people are more conservative today.
I think regulators are more conservative
today. But again, I go back to people
get involved in aggressive accounting.
They don't look at stressing their own
bank in a real way.
You know, you saw
people take too much interest rate risk,
too much credit exposure, too much
optionality risk. And or or sometimes
it's new products. So, if you look at
the financial services, very often it's
the new products that blow up. It takes
a while. They haven't been through a
cycle. And you had you had that with
equities way back in 1929. You had it
with options. You had it with equity
derivatives. You had it with mortgages.
You had with Ginny Even Ginny Mae's at
one point blew up, even though they're
government guaranteed. Arguably you had
it with quant and with LTCM.
>> It happened with quant. It happened with
leverage lending. And then people then
become more rational how they run these
balance sheets and how they think
through the risk.
>> so I have to ask you, is this private
credit today?
Say it again. Is this private credit
today?
I I don't really think so. I I don't
think it's 2 trillion dollars. It's
grown rapidly, that's an issue. But what
happens The other thing about markets,
there's some very good actors in it who
know what they're doing. Customers like
the product. So, I was able to customers
like it. And but there are also people
who don't know what they're doing. And
it's grown rapidly. So, there it may
there may be something in there that
would become a problem one day. I don't
think it's systemic. So, that 2 trillion
the mortgage market when the time it
blew up was
I'm going to say 9 trillion. And a
trillion dollars was lost.
This is, you know, and it was and I A
trillion dollars was also more than a
trillion dollars back then.
A lot of these private credits are not
leveraged like that. But that doesn't
mean there won't be problems, but it's
it's slightly different. We You got to
but you look at the whole system, there
are other things out there that, you
know, are leveraged that, you know, can
cause problems. Of course, people will
take secret leverage in a way you don't
necessarily see it. What what are some
of these in your mind that are
potentially problematic today?
Well, I look I I look at when you look
at asset prices, they're rather high.
Now, I'm not saying it's bad, but if we
if if today PEs were 15 as opposed to
23,
I say that's a lot less risk. A lot less
to fall and you have some upside. I
would say at 23, there's not a lot of
upside and there's a long way to fall.
And that's true with credit spreads. So,
and we and we look at we stress test
everything. We do like 100 stress tests
a week. You know, and to make sure we
can handle a wide variety of things. And
then the other thing and the biggest
risk to me is cyber. I mean, I I think
this cyber stuff
is, you know, we we're very good at it.
We work with all the government
agencies. They would say that J.P.
Morgan Chase we spend 800 million
dollars a year or something on it. We
educate people how we just do.
But it is you're talking about grids and
communications companies and water uh
and even part of the military
establishment, that the protections are
not what we need if we ever get in any
kind of war where cyber's involved. And
China is very good at it.
And so is Russia, but Russia's mostly
criminal, which is slightly different.
All right. I'm going to pull us back to
the story. We're going to fast forward
to 2023. We're not really equipped to
talk about yeah, Russia. So
It's not what we do on acquired, but but
they um Silicon Valley Bank Yeah. and
First Republic both fail.
You're there again.
Did you see it coming? What lessons did
you learn from how 2008 went that you
could apply in 2023? Obviously, you
bought First Republic.
>> Yeah.
As a Silicon Valley Bank, you know, they
both Silicon Valley Bank First did some
very good stuff.
But they they both had something
something unique that we didn't know at
the time. I'm going to call them
concentrated deposits. Not uninsured cuz
people are misstating that,
concentrated. And also a lot of venture
capital. What happened to Silicon Valley
Bank and kind of First Republic is some
of these large venture capital companies
call them there hundreds of them, maybe
a thousand, told their constituent
clients that they invested in, who all
banked at Silicon Valley and First
Republic, the banks aren't safe, get
out.
And they all removed their deposits. And
Silicon Valley Bank, I think they had
200 billion deposits, 200 billion, 100
billion in one day.
And that caused the problem, but they
also had other problems. They didn't
have proper liquidity.
Uh they didn't have their collateral
posted at the Fed. And they had taken
too much interest rate exposure.
And the interest rate exposure was
hidden by accounting. It was called held
to maturity, where you don't have to
mark even treasuries to market. And I
always hated held to maturity because
uh but it gives you better regulatory
returns and stuff like that. But when
that held to maturity, the tangent If
you said, "What's the tangent of a book
value of one of these banks?" You said
it was a hundred. Well, all of a sudden,
it was fifty if you just marked that one
thing to market. And and there's now
here now you're into judgment land. At
what point, if you saw a bank where just
that one mark had the tangible book
value drop to forty or thirty cents on
the dollar, would you panic? I would
have said, "That's too much risk."
And you know, the regulators helped us
because they said rates are going to
stay low forever. So, these banks bought
a lot of three percent mortgages.
And when you know, three percent
mortgages when rates went up to five
percent, you know, worth sixty cents on
the dollar or fifty cents. And that was
it. And so, both those had they took too
much interest rate exposure, known to
management, and it was known to the
regulators. And you know,
unfixable. So, you know, we we knew
about a little bit about Silicon Valley
Bank. We were trying to compete in that
area, so we learned a lot afterwards
about how to do a better job for that
ecosystem of venture capital. We have a
whole campus in Palo Alto now. We hired
five hundred innovation bankers. We
cover uh venture capital companies.
We're not as good as they are yet. We're
we're going to get there cuz we're we're
organized slightly differently. And we
knew First Republic. We were watching
it. I called Janet Yellen that I said
that that company's in trouble and one
or two others. If you want to, we'll
take a look. We could probably buy it
and eliminate the problem. They waited a
little bit too long. It's kind of a
little melting ice cube. Uh but you can
imagine, the day we bought it, you never
heard about it again.
We hedged all their exposures in a
couple of days. And you know, we merged
everything. We wrote everything down.
And but we did get some good stuff from
it. We actually got some good people.
You know, the the normal thing in
acquisition is they're terrible, get rid
of them, or they failed. But we also
looked at what they did, how they dealt
with clients. Some of you may be clients
here. They did a great job with high net
worth clients. Single point of contact,
you know, concierge services. So, now if
you go down Madison Avenue, you see
things called JP Morgan Financial
Center. That's your first JP Morgan
branded consumer effort, right?
>> Yes.
Because it's it's kind of based on that.
Then when you walk in there, we know
your small business, we know your
mortgage, we know your consumer banking.
Uh we can get you travel. We can do a
whole bunch of different stuff. So,
we're very high level
uh services. We I think we have twenty
of them now. But I love it. And if it
works, you know, in twenty years we'll
have three hundred. And so, these things
are opportunities. And I hope it works.
You know, you don't always know they're
going to work for a fact. But but so
far, so good.
All right, listeners. Now it is time to
talk about one of our favorite
companies, Statsig. Statsig is the tool
of choice for product development teams
at hundreds of great companies,
including OpenAI, Notion, Rippling,
Brex, Atlassian, and more. So,
why are all of these hypergrowth
companies using Statsig? Well, in the
past, every major tech company spent
years rebuilding the same internal data
tools like feature flags, product AB
testing, logging services, product
analytics dashboards, you name it. But
the latest generation of great companies
are just using Statsig. Yep. Statsig has
rebuilt the entire suite of data tools
that previously was only in use at the
biggest tech giants as a standalone
product. This includes cutting-edge
product experimentation, feature flags
for safe deployments, session replays,
analytics, and more. All backed by a
single set of product data. It's a
holistic suite to build better products.
Statsig is also warehouse native, so it
can plug directly into your existing
data in Snowflake, BigQuery, whatever
you're using. That means way more
privacy and security, great for any
finance listeners out there, plus no
sending your data to yet another tool.
So, if you're ready to give your product
and engineering teams access to great
data tools, go to statsig.com/acquired
to get started. That's s t a t s i
g.com/acquired.
They have a generous free tier and a
$50,000 startup program. Just remember
to tell them that Ben and David sent
you.
All right, so we're we're effectively
caught up to today. And if we're trying
to and now we've got the whole story.
We've got a lot of context. Obviously,
we didn't go into every detail. But if
we're now trying to answer Yes, if we're
now trying to answer the question, how
did you separate from the pack? Why did
you become a completely different animal
than your whole competitive set?
What are the things in your mind that
led to this success?
Well, I I don't know I I I I I I
I mean, I don't I don't know totally.
First of all,
cuz we skipped over strategy a little
bit. And this is important for you all
that we we we have what we do is the
same thing that a community bank does
other than investment bank, global
investment banking.
Okay? So, if you walk into a small
community bank, they know your business
account, they know your consumer
account. They usually have a trust
company. They used to they used to call
it trust. They'd manage your private
affairs. They'd set up a trust for you
and they'd do stuff like that. And their
CRM is up here. They don't need a
Salesforce CRM cuz they know everyone in
town.
And they didn't do big time global
investment banking. But the strategy,
those businesses fit together, they feed
each other, and so does investment
banking. A lot of our middle market
clients use investment banking products.
A lot of our consumer clients use some
effects. So, all of our businesses feed
each other. There's no extraneous. We
got rid of everything that didn't fit a
strategy. And then you start building
client businesses and client services,
fortress balance sheet, fortress
accounting, all those various things.
And and you know, I I and I've always
talked about
So, it's it's it's holding a portfolio
of things that actually feed each other.
>> fit. Whereas, you know, Citi had consu-
commer- consumer finance, that didn't
fit. Life insurance, that didn't fit.
Property casualty, that didn't They
eventually got rid of them all. Sandy
just wanted to do more of them. You
know, he bought American General which
did uh truck leasing, for God's sake. I
mean, and you know, once you get
involved in these things, it's hard for
people to understand the risk in each
one of these businesses. When But all of
ours fit. I don't like hobbies. I don't
like things. You know, we made and we've
made plenty of mistakes cuz you have you
have to try and test things. And then
you're always investing for the future.
That investment is always people,
branches, and technology. And that's
true whether investment banking people
or consumer bank people or opening
consumer branches or I think Doug Petno
is here and Troy Rohrbaugh who run the
global investment bank, but they've
opened, you know, commercial banking
branches all over Europe. And I think
you're telling me I mean, it's it's it's
going great. You know, and it's feeding
all other parts of the company. So, just
sticking to your knitting, constantly
investing, you know, not overreacting to
the market. You know, markets are like
accordions. Uh and then sometimes, you
know, it's a if you're strong when
others aren't, you have a chance to buy
things you want to buy. And then always
look at the world from the point of view
of the consumer. What do you want? How
do you want it? How do you want to get
it? Can we provide it to you uh uh in a
way that makes sense for us, too. You
know, not going for the last dollar and
not nothing like that. And so, uh and
building teams of people. You know, our
people are curious and smart. They have
heart. They have soul. They give a damn
about uh you know, the guards in the
company and the receptionists and the
you know, it's not just about the big
time bankers and people pounding their
chests. You know, we don't try not to
put up with that. And we have big time
bankers. They are exceptional. You know,
and
uh but the company, you know, serves the
clients. And we have uh and I think the
clients know that. When when you really
dig in to start analyzing JP Morgan's
financials, you kind of see this one
thing that jumps right out at you, which
is the efficiency ratio.
For every dollar that you make compared
to your competitors, you get to keep
fifteen cents more of that dollar as
profit.
It's not hard to see how that compounds
and how that allows reinvestments. And
why is your efficiency ratio so much
better than competitors? It's it is
literally continuously investing and
gaining business at the margin and not
stopping and not stop starting and You
know, the thing is the thing about
margins, too, is that we we have that
margin while investing a lot. It's much
easier to have that margin and just, you
know, we can cut billions of dollars of
marketing out tomorrow. We can stop
opening branches and save a billion
dollars next year. We could do a lot of
things. Your margins will go up. Your
growth will go down. Your long-term
margins will probably get worse. Uh so,
we kind of look right through the cycle
and we look at the actual economics of
the accounting of what we do. Uh
and you know, we have you know, we built
it over time. You know, we have great
people and great products. And there's
there's some secret sauce I'm not going
to tell you about. We do invest today.
And we tell everyone everything. And I'm
sitting there watching my I never do
presentations. I'm watching them do the
presentations. I'm saying, "Oh God,
we're just giving away too many secrets
here." But
but So, there's secrets as to why the
efficiency ratio is so good.
>> Howard Schultz here before, you know,
and uh I'm not supposed to say that,
probably.
It's okay. It's okay.
No, but We're glad you invited your
friends.
>> Look what he built over the years. You
know, the consistency, the curiosity,
the heart, the you know, branch by
branch products. It's just always doing
that, knowing you're going to make
mistakes, but building the culture that
just kind of plows through that. And you
all know I I do use sports. Sports is a
great analogy. If you have a a sport
team with a bunch of real jerks on it,
are they going to be a great team?
Almost never.
You know, if a
if the team members aren't giving it
their their best every day during
practice, you learn at the time Brady.
Every day at practice you worked hard.
You know, if people are not giving their
best, how you going to have a great
team? It's not that different in
business. The difference in business you
can BS about it all the time.
You can make up stories, but in sports
you see it, you know, on the playing
field.
Do they have the team? Do they play
together? They don't even have to be
friends. They have to practice, know
their teams. And so I do think companies
have that. It's like a sauce that works.
You've seen it in lots of different
companies, you know, not just JP Morgan
Chase.
So
All right, we've got
one last question for you.
Uh
if you look back to 2008, which was a
long time ago now The 2000 what? To
2008.
Which was a long time ago now.
All of the other
leaders that were involved in that era
have long since retired. I mean I think
many folks within JP Morgan Chase have
long since retired since then.
It seems like you're working as hard as
ever and in it as much as ever.
Why are you still here? What keeps you
going?
>> Yeah.
Uh
so I want to thank my wife was here too,
who suffered through all this with me
all these years and probably couldn't
have done it
couldn't have done it without her.
Uh
I don't know. Look, I
I I don't know, but I do believe
My my grandparents all Greek immigrants
There we go. My grandparents all Greek
immigrants who didn't finish high
school. Uh but there's a Greek ethic,
you know, which I and I don't even
realize you learn it from your parents,
you know, from the ground up. And Judy's
parents, my wife's parents were the
same, which is, you know, have a
purpose.
You know, have a And that it could be
art, it could be science, it could be
military, it could be business, it could
be it could it could be just being a
great parent, a great teacher, you know,
but have a purpose and then do the best
you can.
You know, give it give it your all.
Don't like be one of those people who
complain all the time, you know, you
give it your best and uh and then treat
everyone properly. Everyone. You know,
like if I and including like if there's
a bully, being up on someone, you had to
stand up for the someone.
You were not allowed to allow a bully to
do it. So
how you treat people, what you do. And
so in in my hierarchy of life, the most
important thing is my family.
Uh still is. The second thing is my
country cuz I think this country is the
indispensable nation that brought
freedom of speech, freedom of religion,
freedom of enterprise.
Uh
which we have to teach everywhere we go
about how important it is cuz I don't
think people fully understand it
sometimes. And then my purpose cuz you
know, they My family is wanting me home
every day. And this is this is my
contribution through this company. I can
help cities, states, schools, companies,
employees. And I I get the biggest kick
out of that. And so
uh that's what I do. And as long as I
have the energy, I'm going to do it. I
can't imagine I'm not I don't play golf.
You know.
My daughter, one of my daughters said,
"Dad, you need some hobbies." And I
said, "I do. We
hanging out with you, family travel,
barbecuing, wine. We now like whiskeys."
And I love I love history. I think
history is the greatest teacher of all
time. Hiking. I can't play tennis
anymore cuz of my back, but those are my
hobbies. I don't buy fancy cars and
stuff like that, but this gives me
purpose in life beyond family and beyond
country. Plus I think this helps the
country. You know, I get to do a lot of
things for our country
that I just think are quite meaningful
from this job. And so when I'm done with
this, I don't know. I'll teach and
write. I may write a book like Andrew
Ross Sorkin did.
I'll do something, but I got to do
something.
I'm not going to twiddle my thumbs and
smell the flowers.
There are a lot of people who have
floated your name for political or
policy roles over the years.
It is hard There is only one job that
could possibly impact the country in a
bigger scale than you're currently
doing. Do you agree?
Right now, yeah.
Well,
that's probably a great place to leave
Jamie, thank you so much for joining us.
David, Ben, these guys are great by the
way. So thank you.
Well, that is it for our conversation
with Jamie Dimon, listeners.
Thank you so much to all 6,000 of you
who came to watch in person. It was so
cool. So cool.
Well, we have some thank yous. First to
our partners this season, JP Morgan, an
incredible partner to us here at
Acquired. Statsig, the best way to do
experimentation and more as a product
development team. Vercel, your complete
platform for web development. And
Anthropic, the makers of Claude. You can
click the links in the show notes to
learn more about each of them. As
always, a huge thank you to Arvin
Navaratnam at Worldly Partners for his
excellent write-up on the Jamie Dimon
years of JP Morgan, which is linked in
the show notes.
If you liked this episode, go check out
other recent episodes like the start of
our Google series, which is off to a
screaming start. Our Rolex episode,
which is another one of our biggest
ever. And then our interviews, Steve
Ballmer, Mark Zuckerberg, Howard
Schultz. If you're new to the show, I
think all of those are great places to
start.
After this episode, if you are still
looking for more and you're like I've
already listened to all of those other
episodes, we have a second show for you,
ACQ2. The most recent is an episode with
Jesse Cole, the founder and the CEO,
founder and owner? Owner. Yeah. Yeah, he
wears a lot of hats, all of them are
yellow, at the Savannah Bananas. For
something completely different. Yes. And
if you want to talk about this with the
Acquired community, come join the Slack,
acquired.fm/slack.
And with that, listeners, we'll see you
next time. We'll see you next time. Who
got the truth?
Is it you? Is it you? Is it you? Who got
the truth now? Huh.